Day 02: What is Software Testing?

-> What is Software?
Ans> Software is basically a set of instructions or commands that tells a computer what to do.

-> Types of Softwares:
   i) System Software: Device drivers, Operating Systems, Servers, Utilities, etc.
   ii) Programming Software: Compilers, Debuggers, Interpreters, etc.
   iii) Application Software: Web Applications, Mobile Apps, Desktop Applications etc.

-> System Software: System software basically controls a computer's internal functioning and also controls hardware devices such as monitors, printer, and storage devices, etc.
   Example: Operating System, Language Processor, Device Driver.
   Written in a low level language.

-> Application Software: Application software is designed to perform a specific task for end users.
   It is a product or a program that is designed only to fulfill end-users' requirements.
   Example: General Purpose Software (MS Word, MS Excel, Powerpoint, etc),
            Customized Software (airline reservation system),
            Utility Software (antivirus, disk fragmenter, memory tester, disk repair, disk cleaners).
   Written in a high level language.

-> What is Software Testing?
Ans> Software Testing is the process of evaluating and verifying that a software product or application does what it is supposed to do.
     Software Testing is a part of Software development process.

-> Main Objective: Main Objective of testing is to release quality product to the client.
                   Activity to detect and identify the defects in the Software. (Not Fix)

-> What are software testing objectives and purpose?
Ans> i) Finding defects,
     ii) TO prevent defects,
     iii) Gaining confidence in and providing information about the level of quality,
     iv) Ensure that it satisfies the BRS that is Business Requirement,
     v) End result meets the business and user requirements,
     vi) Gain the confidence of the customers by providing them a quality product.

-> Quality: Quality is defined as justification of all the requirements of a customer in a product.

-> Quality Software: Quality software is means
                     i) Bug-free,
                     ii) Delivered on time,
                     iii) Within budget,
                     iv) Meets requirements and/or expectations,
                     v) Maintainabile.